---
layout: about
title: about
permalink: /
description:

profile:
  align: right
  image: logo.png

news: true # includes a list of news items
selected_papers: false # includes a list of papers marked as "selected={true}"
social: true  # includes social icons at the bottom of the page
---

**[Department of Biochemistry and Molecular
Genetics](https://medschool.cuanschutz.edu/biochemistry) and [RNA Bioscience
Initiative](https://medschool.cuanschutz.edu/rbi), [University of Colorado
School of Medicine](https://www.cuanschutz.edu/)**

The broad goals of our laboratory are to:

- Understand how RNA damage and repair are integrated with stress responses
(funded by an [NIGMS
MIRA](https://reporter.nih.gov/search/FWmPa7DGuk6CmPb8Ocb5XQ/project-details/10193187))
- Develop new molecular methods that enhance single-cell and spatial gene
expression experiments (funded by an [NIH Transformative
R01](https://commonfund.nih.gov/tra/recipients))
- Develop and apply novel RNA therapeutics that modulate gene expression (funded
by the RNA Bioscience Initiative)

We are a group of RNA biologists, technology developers, and data analysts on a
mission to discover fundamental principles of RNA regulation and apply them in
creative ways to improve human health.

Major efforts in the lab focus on biology of RNA damage and repair using a
combination of method development, bioinformatics, genetics, biochemistry, and
cell biology. Over the past ten years we have developed [new sequencing
approaches](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/26001965/) to identify damaged RNAs
and [new model systems](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/30874502/) with which to
understand the causes and consequences of RNA damage. Our studies have led to
[new concepts](https://elifesciences.org/articles/42262) in post-transcriptional
regulation that have broad implications for understanding the role of RNA damage
in biology.

A second effort focuses on the development of novel technologies for analysis of
biochemical phenotypes in using single-cell and spatial gene expression
approaches. These methods include the [measurement of enzyme activity and
inhibition](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32286626/) in single-cell assays,
[tracking of ligands and associated gene expression
responses](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33843587/) through animal tissue, and
approaches for quantifying metabolite levels.

The newest effort lab is a collaboration with the neurogenetics clinic
at Children's Hospital to develop RNA therapies for treatment of pediatric
neurological diseases. We are developing a pipeline using patient-derved induced 
pluripotent stem cells to identify therapeutic antisense oligonucleotides that
correct the negative impacts of splice-altering mutations.

Finally, we host the [Informatics
Fellows](https://medschool.cuanschutz.edu/rbi/funding-opportunities/rbi-informatics-fellows-program)
of the RNA Bioscicence Initiative, who develop and apply analytical approaches
with investigators across our campus to enable widespread deployment of bleeding
edge RNA analysis technologies.
