---
layout: page
title: Molecular technologies
description: New tech for single-cell and spatial gene expression assays
importance: 1
---

### Single-cell biochemistry: a new approach to measure functional heterogeneity

<img style="float: right; max-width: 300px" src="/assets/img/sc-biochemistry.jpg">

New methods to study heterogeneity at cellular resolution in complex
tissues are transforming our understand-ing of human biology and disease.
These approaches measure differences in gene expression, chromatin
ac-cessibility, and protein levels across thousands to millions of cells
to understand developmental trajectories of tissues, tumors, and whole
organisms. But these methods rely on measurements of static levels of DNA,
RNA, and proteins, and fail to capture dynamic biochemical activities that
underlie complex cellular functions. Instead of developing more direct
readouts of cellular function, the field has focused on inferring
functional status from measurement of mRNA abundance and chromatin
accessibility in single cells.

To accelerate the study of biochemical heterogeneity among single cells,
we are [developing functional
assays](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32286626/) as a new modality for
single-cell experiments. Instead of measuring the abundance of molecules
-- levels of DNA, RNA, or protein -- from single cells and predicting cell
functional states, our key innovation is to directly measure enzymatic
activities in single cells by measuring the conversion of substrates to
products by single cell extracts in a high-throughput DNA sequencing
experiment. Our approach is compatible with existing platforms that
measure gene expression in thousands to millions of individual cells and
enables many different enzymatic activities to be measured simultaneously.

### Charting tissue dissmination with molecular tracking devices

<img style="float: right; max-width: 300px" src="/assets/img/mouse-tracking-device.jpeg">

The dissemination of molecules through tissue establishes signaling
gradients that drive complex developmental patterns, enables rapid
responses to infection, and dictates the distribution of therapeutic
drugs. However, our understanding of this molecular cartography would be
vastly improved by charting molecular traffic throughout organ systems and
cataloguing cell and tissue responses upon arrival and sensing.

We [recently developed "molecular tracking
devices"](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33843587/) -- protein-DNA
conjugates that are stable during tissue transit *in vivo* -- to follow
the distribution, acquisition, and retention of antigen in the immune
system during an immune response. Molecular tracking devices enable
previously inaccessible measurements of gene expression responses to
signaling gradients and ligand-receptor interactions in living animals. We
are expanding this approach to study the dynamics and concentrations of
tracking devices within tissue and associated gene expression responses
caused by receptor activation.

### Funding

- [NIH/NIA Transformative R01](https://reporter.nih.gov/search/JVJbnKPKPEmsn4iajmiqig/project-details/10263944){:target="_blank"}
- [NIH/NIAID R21](https://reporter.nih.gov/search/HH46I88QtUOO7kXMtKO1fg/project-details/10105545){:target="_blank"}

